index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Study - Sustainability in Open Source Projects
date: 2020-06-27 15:52
tags: software-sustainability
---

Research software is often abandoned or shut down, for one reason or another. While some reasons may be straightforward, e.g. a sole maintainer has moved on, or grant funding has ceased - some projects are able to withstand these barriers and may remain active and maintained despite adversity.

I'm running a study where I plan to monitor open source projects over the period of a year, measuring common performance indicators, to see if any indicators are common to projects that remain sustainable and active.

During this period, I'll be doing the following:

1. Running an initial survey, where I gather info about the project age, leadership, and GitHub URLs.
2. After the initial survey, I'll also gather information about the GitHub projects - this is info such as number of contributors, number of PRs, time taken to close/merge these PRs, and issues closed. Some of this info will be gathered using scripts, such as tools from [GrimoireLab](https://chaoss.github.io/grimoirelab/) and other parts will be gathered manually. An example of this is the Code of Conduct - while I can programmatically check for the _existence_ of CodeOfConduct.md, I can't easily check for enforcement contacts without manual checks.
3. 6 and 12 months after the initial survey, I'll send out a follow-up survey and run follow up GitHub checks, to see changes in projects over time.

Interested in participating? Please visit [this survey](https://apps.mhs.manchester.ac.uk/surveys//TakeSurvey.aspx?SurveyID=OSSSustainability) for more info and to get started. Alternatively, you can download a PDF copy of the [participant information sheet](assets/PIS_sustainable_software.pdf) (the sheet is also shown in the survey if you are an eligible participant).

Commit message:

add link to readme notice

index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Study - Sustainability in Open Source Projects
date: 2020-06-27 15:52
tags: software-sustainability
---

Research software is often abandoned or shut down, for one reason or another. While some reasons may be straightforward, e.g. a sole maintainer has moved on, or grant funding has ceased - some projects are able to withstand these barriers and may remain active and maintained despite adversity.

I'm running a study where I plan to monitor open source projects over the period of a year, measuring common performance indicators, to see if any indicators are common to projects that remain sustainable and active.

During this period, I'll be doing the following:

1. Running an initial survey, where I gather info about the project age, leadership, and GitHub URLs. Participants will be asked to add [a short notice to their readme](readme_notice).
2. After the initial survey, I'll also gather information about the GitHub projects - this is info such as number of contributors, number of PRs, time taken to close/merge these PRs, and issues closed. Some of this info will be gathered using scripts, such as tools from [GrimoireLab](https://chaoss.github.io/grimoirelab/) and other parts will be gathered manually. An example of this is the Code of Conduct - while I can programmatically check for the _existence_ of CodeOfConduct.md, I can't easily check for enforcement contacts without manual checks.
3. 6 and 12 months after the initial survey, I'll send out a follow-up survey and run follow up GitHub checks, to see changes in projects over time.

Interested in participating? Please visit [this survey](https://apps.mhs.manchester.ac.uk/surveys//TakeSurvey.aspx?SurveyID=OSSSustainability) for more info and to get started. Alternatively, you can download a PDF copy of the [participant information sheet](assets/PIS_sustainable_software.pdf) (the sheet is also shown in the survey if you are an eligible participant).
